on today's episode of the habits podcast
we've got sam dunning from webchoice
sharing with us his good habits when it
comes to websites and seo
[Music]
so thanks for joining us sam first
things first what qualifies you to be
our guest expert when it comes to
websites and seo
sure so we work with startups through to
large scale companies i've probably
launched
several hundred different websites as
well as seo strategies
and as well as that i run a podcast
called business growth show
which is actively a top 100 marketing
podcast
so i imagine then you've seen a lot of
businesses that have got it wrong when
it comes to their website
their seo strategy and also you've seen
things that definitely work so what are
some of the worst things that you've
seen
yeah so one of the worst things that i
see mike
is when people are actively spending
money
on ads or maybe seo or different times
of different types of marketing so
they're driving all this traffic all
these people to the website
but when they get to the website it's
failing to convert
their hard-earned visitors into a
consistent stream
of inbound leads or opportunities yeah
and
there's a number of reasons for that and
one of the
the main reasons is that the messaging
on the website isn't clear
so quite often when you go to a
company's website it might say
oh we're award-winning we've got all
these accreditations we're really really
great at what we do
and a prospective customer coming to
your site doesn't really care about that
what they want to know is the problem
you solve
or how you can make their life better
what qualifies you to do that
and how they can actually get in touch
so how they can take action
whether that's request a quote book a
call just get in touch and the next step
that it can take to do business with you
[Music]
so what are some of the good habits that
you recommend that people do have when
it comes to
firstly their website and then their seo
sure so on the website side of things
it's it's really important that you make
it as clear as possible
how you can actually help your
prospective customers especially if
you're marketing this site
so there's something that a guy called
donald miller
came up with a little while back called
the grunt test so imagine a caveman
sitting in his cave back in caveman
times got a laptop
stuck in front of him out of nowhere
could he go onto your website
and within three to five seconds grunt
exactly what you do
exactly how you can help him and get in
touch
so if it doesn't pass that test then
it's probably not going to generate you
as many opportunities as many leads as
many sales as you wish
and just to add a few layers to that so
making sure your messaging and how you
help people is clear
and making sure it's easy as possible
for people to request a
quote give you a call or get in touch
with you no matter what section your
site are on
there's other ways you can leverage
trust so you can use things like
social proof with your website so making
sure there's clear reviews
accreditations testimonials on how you
help people
and all these little bits and pieces
throughout your site
are gonna be the point that builds trust
that proves that you're a thought leader
in your space and it just helps
generate those all-important inquiries
and opportunities it's interesting that
you say the grunt test because we say
the same thing so we do
some design work at the eye production
side of our business
and we say that about your linkedin
profile like nobody really reads or go
searching through your about me section
to find out are you the person that can
resolve this issue
it's unless it says it front and center
at the top of your profile
in your banner and include the sort of
call to action and the best way to
contact you
you kind of list you're missing out on
sales every day potentially
yeah yeah yeah exactly so it's almost
painful especially those companies that
are actively spending money whether it's
paid ads google ads whether it's
seo whether they're just doing a lot
through social media linkedin or other
channels they're
spending all this time with their own
team or spending all this money they're
driving all these people to their
website
but then their messaging is not clear so
a prospective customer doesn't know how
they can help them or the pain they
solve
and they don't they don't know how to
take action and the worst thing that can
happen then is they bounce straight off
your website onto a competitor
that has clear messaging that builds
that trust with the social proof of the
testimonials with the reviews
with the work they offer and makes it
nice and easy for them to to get in
touch and do business with them
so that's the website what would be one
of your good habits or top tips for
seo so on on seo first of all my top tip
would be look into doing it
so the chances are if you're a service
based industry or product based industry
even if you're b2c if you're b2b
people are probably in almost all cases
typing in
what you do on google so they're
probably typing in how to do x
or best ex provider or service ex
provider
so chances are people are searching for
what you do on google i do it if i need
help with the house i'm terrible
at diy for example if i need a handyman
i'm going to type it in on google and
find someone that comes up top
so it's something you need to consider
as
is a great way to get drive
organic inquiries organic traffic
organic inquiries and
build trust over time so whether that's
something you want to do yourself
whether it's something you want to
research and take the time to learn
all about things like keyword research
on-site optimization offset optimization
there's a lot to it
or whether you want to hire an expert
it's something that's going to
over time reduce your ad spend so that
way you get the organic inquiries coming
in rather than the paid opportunities
build up your trust as a leader in your
industry as your company
and most importantly get you more
inbound leads or sales
we say the same thing about um having a
youtube channel putting content on there
it's
that's you know a search engine
essentially but with video content
and whenever we do um content for our
clients we always look at what questions
is your ideal client avatar asking and
then why don't you make video content
that resolves that issue or answers
those questions and
again in a strange way it makes it
evergreen content because people will
always ask those types of questions so i
get the organic side of it it's so
important
yeah exactly mike so a big part of it is
doing the right research
so firstly if you're gonna look at seo
or if you're gonna look at a vendor to
help you with seo or someone in-house
you need to think about what are the
products or what the services i actually
want to get business or leads for
so say for example you provide crm we
provide training
you might want to come up for best
insert product here training provider
or best insert name here crm provider so
you once you've chosen those search
terms you want to rank for
based on them actually getting traffic
just like you said mike you've got to
think about
the content on your website in this case
is actually is it actually answering
these questions that people are
searching for
is the videos that you've got on there
the infographics and all that good stuff
actually answering someone's question so
if they searched on google
you would give a relevant and really
useful response on your content
that would then prompt the person to
build trust in what you offer and then
all importantly get in touch with you
[Music]
so if i was a business tuning in and
listening to some of this advice on my
website or i wanted some
help with my seo where could we find you
sure thing so our website is
webchoiceuk.com that's webchoiceuk.com
or you can check me out on linkedin just
search sam dunning and i should come up
there
otherwise give me a call oh seven eight
three four
seven six six zero zero four thanks to
sam for sharing with us his good habits
when it comes to building a website and
seo
don't forget join us next time for
another episode of habits
you